# Web3 gaming challenges

Web3 claims to grant gamers with true ownership over their in-game assets by making these assets usable and tradeable outside of the game's closed environment. But effectively, current web3 solutions just replace the “old” closed environments with new ones: siloed blockchain (i.e. Wax, Polygon, Solana). In-game assets are still only usable and tradable in specific, siloed blockchains, marketplaces, and apps.

In turn, this fragmentation creates a dynamic where major blockchains and marketplaces are disproportionate. power over game devs and gamers, effectively creating monopolies. This allows blockchains and marketplaces to rip the lion's share of financial rewards. It is not uncommon for web3 game devs to launch games on technically underperforming, unfit chains, just to gain access to their isolated but significant user base and marketplace. I.e. a game could be launched on Ethereum, despite its high gas, low transactions per second (“TPS”) just to gain access to Opensea, which will then charge more than 5% on any in-game asset change of ownership.

An effective NFT bridge is a good first step to solving this fundamental issue, but it’s a huge undertaking. Current NFT bridges fail to address key technical and business challenges unique to NFT transfers, typically implemented in a centralized, custodial manner that require trust in a centralized party and/or the code (smart contract risk) as a single point of failure. Other typical shortcomings include the inability to interact with NFTs in multiple chains (state sync for both read/write), duplicated state, and vulnerability to double spend. Despite these tough challenges, the future of web3 gaming is clear, a multichain, interoperable future, cross-chain gaming is inevitable.

Here are some additional note-worthy challenges that are holding web3 gaming back, that we are interested in and actively looking at: Incomplete information games where the state is not visible to all players; Trustless randomness generator; Seamless wallet interaction for hyper-casual, mobile gaming; Pseudo-anonymity authentication; Gaming avatars and general in-game assets compatibility for different games and apps through new standards; Heavy-duty RPC nodes for high throughput.

Clan is not a centralized development shop, we do not offer one specific solution to a problem. Rather, following the footsteps of other decentralized projects such as Ethereum and Juno, our approach is to partner with, organize, and incentivize a community of talented Cosmos and web3 gaming developers. It is important to mention that while all of the above are problems we would like to solve, Clan is a community lead project, and will develop in and to areas that the community will decide on.
